To detect complex patterns of QoS manipulation using machine learning, we can follow these steps:

Data Collection:
Collect network traffic data, including QoS parameters, from various users.
Label the data as normal or fraudulent based on known behaviors or manual inspection.

Feature Engineering:
Extract relevant features from the traffic data that can be used to train the machine learning model. These features might include:
Packet inter-arrival time
Packet size
QoS markings (DSCP values)
Throughput
Jitter
Packet loss rate

Model Selection:
Choose a suitable machine learning model for the task. Common models for anomaly detection include:
Random Forest
Support Vector Machine (SVM)
Neural Networks
Gradient Boosting Machines
Isolation Forest (specifically for anomaly detection)

Training and Evaluation:
Split the data into training and testing sets.
Train the model on the training set.
Evaluate the model's performance on the testing set using metrics such as accuracy, precision, recall, and F1-score.

Deployment:
Integrate the trained model into the ns-3 simulation.
Use the model to predict whether a user's behavior is normal or fraudulent in real-time.
Implement actions based on the model's predictions (e.g., logging, penalizing, or blocking users).
Here’s an example implementation of this approach using Python for the machine learning part and ns-3 for the network simulation:

Step 1: Data Collection
First, we need to modify the ns-3 simulation to log traffic data. The following code snippet adds logging functionality to the previous ns-3 script

Step 2: Feature Engineering
Load the collected data in Python and extract relevant features:

Step 3: Model Selection and Training
Train a machine learning model on the data

Step 4: Deployment in ns-3
Integrate the trained model into the ns-3 simulation for real-time detection
1. Export the Trained Model:
  import joblib
  joblib.dump(model, 'qos_detection_model.pkl')
2. Load the Model in ns-3 and Predict:
  Use pybind11 to integrate Python with C++ in ns-3. Here’s a simplified example of how you might do this



Explanation
Data Collection

The LogFlowStats function logs flow statistics to a CSV file.
This data can be used to train the machine learning model.

Feature Engineering:
Features like throughput, packet loss rate, average delay, and average jitter are extracted for each flow.

Model Training:
A Random Forest classifier is trained to detect fraudulent QoS manipulation based on the extracted features.

Deployment:
The trained model is loaded in ns-3 using pybind11.
The CheckQoS function uses the model to predict whether a user's behavior is fraudulent.
Actions such as logging, bandwidth reduction, or blocking can be implemented based on the predictions.


